fa18faq.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions for the Fall 2018 Data 100

**Q. Who are the course instructors?**

**A.** The course will be taught by Fernando Perez and Josh Hug.

**Q. I wasn’t able to officially enroll, why?**

**A.** The enrollment system will only allow you to enroll if you meet
**all** of the requirements below:

-   Engineering 7 or Data 8.

-   CS61A or CS88.

-   EE16A or Math54 (co-requisite - you have to actually **be enrolled** for the system to let you enroll in Data100).

**Q. How can I enroll in the course if I have not met the exact list of
prerequisites above?**

**A.** You’ll need to fill out the [enrollment appeals form](https://goo.gl/forms/SIH49z8JE8VrvNbk1), which certifies
that you will have the needed background knowledge to succeed in CS100.

Spiritually, there are three requirements: Statistics, Python
Programming, and Linear Algebra. Statistics and Python Programming are
prerequisites which must be completed before the course. Linear Algebra
is a corequisite, which may be completed before or concurrently with the
course.

To satisfy the statistics requirement, we accept the following on-campus
Berkeley courses: Data 8, E7, Stat 20, Stat 21, Stat W21, Stat 131A,
Stat 133, Stat 135. We also accept the edx version of Data 8 (link).
\[some sort of note about how E7 isn’t a great way to meet stat
requirement\]

To satisfy the Python Programming requirement, we accept the following
Berkeley courses: CS61A and CS88.

To satisfy the linear algebra co-requisite requirement, we accept Math
54, EE16A, Stat 89A.

However, even if you have not taken the exact courses listed above, you
can still be enrolled in the course, so long as you accept the
responsibility for understanding all needed prerequisite knowledge.

[**Enrollment appeals form**](https://goo.gl/forms/SIH49z8JE8VrvNbk1).


**Q. What is the status of the L&S Data Science Major and/or Minor?**

**A.** As you plan your classes for fall, the Division of Data Sciences hopes and expects that the L&S Data Science Major will be available to students in the fall.  You can learn more about the current status of the Major (and Minor) on [this website](https://data.berkeley.edu/degrees/data-science-ba).  Frequently Asked Questions about the Major and Minor are [discussed here](https://data.berkeley.edu/education/faqs).  The [Data001 Piazza site](https://piazza.com/class/j7s01y165odq5?cid=496) will reopen later for you to ask questions from advising staff as they are hired.  At this time we (your Data 100 staff) do not have any further information.


**Q. I know that each student's experience in the class may vary, but what do students find to be the most challenging aspect of the course?**

**A.** This varies a lot: for some it's the programming, for others the mathematics, for others the statistical reasoning.
 
**Q Are students expected to or should they come into the class with knowledge/skills beyond the prerequisites (e.g. additional computer science/statistics courses)?**

**A.** A solid mastery of the material in the official prerequisites should suffice to succeed in the course.

**Q. How difficult has it been for students to enroll into CS/Stat 100 in past semesters?**
 
**A.** We've been growing the course capacity to accommodate the demand.  In spring 2018, most, if not all who wanted to enroll were eventually able to do so (if not right at the start).

Commit message:

added note that edx course acceptance is not certain

fa18faq.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions for the Fall 2018 Data 100

**Q. Who are the course instructors?**

**A.** The course will be taught by Fernando Perez and Josh Hug.

**Q. I wasn’t able to officially enroll, why?**

**A.** The enrollment system will only allow you to enroll if you meet
**all** of the requirements below:

-   Engineering 7 or Data 8.

-   CS61A or CS88.

-   EE16A or Math54 (co-requisite - you have to actually **be enrolled** for the system to let you enroll in Data100).

**Q. How can I enroll in the course if I have not met the exact list of
prerequisites above?**

**A.** You’ll need to fill out the [enrollment appeals form](https://goo.gl/forms/SIH49z8JE8VrvNbk1), which certifies
that you will have the needed background knowledge to succeed in CS100.

Spiritually, there are three requirements: Statistics, Python
Programming, and Linear Algebra. Statistics and Python Programming are
prerequisites which must be completed before the course. Linear Algebra
is a corequisite, which may be completed before or concurrently with the
course.

To satisfy the statistics requirement, we accept the following on-campus
Berkeley courses: Data 8, E7, Stat 20, Stat 21, Stat W21, Stat 131A,
Stat 133, Stat 135. Tentatively, we may aslso be accepting the [edx version 
of Data 8](https://www.edx.org/course/foundations-data-science-computational-uc-berkeleyx-data8-1x. More details
here once they are available.

To satisfy the Python Programming requirement, we accept the following
Berkeley courses: CS61A and CS88.

To satisfy the linear algebra co-requisite requirement, we accept Math
54, EE16A, Stat 89A.

However, even if you have not taken the exact courses listed above, you
can still be enrolled in the course, so long as you accept the
responsibility for understanding all needed prerequisite knowledge.

[**Enrollment appeals form**](https://goo.gl/forms/SIH49z8JE8VrvNbk1).


**Q. What is the status of the L&S Data Science Major and/or Minor?**

**A.** As you plan your classes for fall, the Division of Data Sciences hopes and expects that the L&S Data Science Major will be available to students in the fall.  You can learn more about the current status of the Major (and Minor) on [this website](https://data.berkeley.edu/degrees/data-science-ba).  Frequently Asked Questions about the Major and Minor are [discussed here](https://data.berkeley.edu/education/faqs).  The [Data001 Piazza site](https://piazza.com/class/j7s01y165odq5?cid=496) will reopen later for you to ask questions from advising staff as they are hired.  At this time we (your Data 100 staff) do not have any further information.


**Q. I know that each student's experience in the class may vary, but what do students find to be the most challenging aspect of the course?**

**A.** This varies a lot: for some it's the programming, for others the mathematics, for others the statistical reasoning.
 
**Q Are students expected to or should they come into the class with knowledge/skills beyond the prerequisites (e.g. additional computer science/statistics courses)?**

**A.** A solid mastery of the material in the official prerequisites should suffice to succeed in the course.

**Q. How difficult has it been for students to enroll into CS/Stat 100 in past semesters?**
 
**A.** We've been growing the course capacity to accommodate the demand.  In spring 2018, most, if not all who wanted to enroll were eventually able to do so (if not right at the start).
