# Frequently Asked Questions for Summer 2019 Data 100

**Q. Who are the course instructors?**

**A.** The course will be taught by Sam Lau.

---

**Q. My question isn't answered in this FAQ, what can I do?**

**A.** Preferably, phrase your question in a way that isn't personally
identifiable and file it as a [new issue in this
repository](https://github.com/DS-100/DS-100.github.io/issues/new). We will
then add a response to the FAQ, thus benefiting you and all other students with
similar concerns.

If it's really something completely specific to your personal situation that
can't be addressed in a public forum, contact the instructors by email.

---

**Q. What are the official prerequisites for this course?**

**A.** The official list of prerequisites are:

- Data 8.

- CS61A or CS88 or Engineering 7. We strongly recommend either CS61A or CS88.

- EE16A or Math54 or Stat89A. This may be satisfied concurrently with DS100,
  but we strongly recommend that you finish a linear algebra course before
  taking DS100.

---

**Q. Will the official prerequisites be enforced?**

**A.** The official prerequisites will not be enforced in terms of enrollment.
However, we expect knowledge from the official prerequisites for the course
itself. We might be sending out a form near the beginning of the semester
regarding the expected knowledge from the prerequisites (TBA).

---

**Q. Will attendance be required?**

**A.** Attendance will not be required, but we will have some method of
incentivizing attendance by allowing attendance to count for a portion of the
exam grades.

---

**Q. Which course should I enroll in?**

**A.** For Summer 2019, undergraduate enrollment will be handled by the Department of Statistics under STAT C100.

---

**Q. What is the status of the L&S Data Science Major and/or Minor?**

**A.** You can use the official [Data001 Piazza
site](https://piazza.com/class/j7s01y165odq5?cid=496) to ask questions about
the data science major and/or minor.

---

**Q. I know that each student's experience in the class may vary, but what do
students find to be the most challenging aspect of the course?**

**A.** This varies a lot: for some it's the programming, for others the
mathematics, for others the statistical reasoning. Students almost always find
that the most challenging portion of the course is the content that they have
the least background in.

---

**Q. How difficult has it been for students to enroll into CS/Stat 100 in past
semesters?**

**A.** During the Fall and Spring semesters, we've been growing the course
capacity to accommodate the demand. In Spring 2019, most, if not all who wanted
to enroll were eventually able to do so (if not right at the start). In Summer
2019, we will not grow the class beyond its current capacity of 150 students.

---

**Q. What will be the policy for final conflicts in this class; will there be
an alternate final?**

**A.** The final is tentatively scheduled to be a 2-part exam given on the last
two days of lecture (Wed and Thurs, August 14-15, 9:30-11:00am). If you cannot
make this time, you should not enroll in the course since we will not hold
alternate final times.

---

**Q. Will there be webcasts/lecture videos?**

**A.** Yes, all lectures will be captured on video and posted promptly on
the course website.

Videos from past semesters are available on the archived website for each year.
These can provide useful complementary perspectives on a given topic. Note that
to view videos from past semesters, you must be logged in with your Berkeley
credentials into YouTube; otherwise, you'll get an error message about the
video not being available.
