sp17/staff.md, before:

## Instructors

<!-- The following block is for faculty info -->
<div class="container-fluid">
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function email_address(dep, name) {
      domain = dep + 'berkeley';
      tld = 'edu';
      document.write(
        '<a href="mailto:' + name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '">' +
        name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '</a>');
  }
  </script>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://jegonzal.github.io/assets/jegonzal.jpg" alt="Joey Gonzalez" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Joseph E. Gonzalez</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("cs.", "jegonzal") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Photos/Homepages/hellerstein.jpg" alt="Joseph Hellerstein" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Joseph Hellerstein</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("cs.", "hellerstein") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="http://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~nolan/images/Deb-Nolan.jpg" alt="Deborah Nolan" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Deborah Nolan</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("stat.", "nolan") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~binyu/Site/Welcome_files/Yu_Bin13.jpg" alt="Bin Yu" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Bin Yu</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("stat.", "binyu") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
  </div>
</div>

## GSIs

<!-- The following block is for GSI info -->
<div class="container-fluid">
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function email_address(dep, name) {
      domain = dep + 'berkeley';
      tld = 'edu';
      document.write(
        '<a href="mailto:' + name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '">' +
        name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '</a>');
  }
  </script>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="http://data8.org/fa16/assets/images/henry.png" alt="Henry Milner" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Henry Milner</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "henrym") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/8609553?v=3&u=184ee8c0c63e394971846ebc55d47f0b8de42a54&s=400" alt="Joseph Simonian" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Joseph Simonian</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "jsimonian") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="http://data8.org/fa16/assets/images/sam.jpg" alt="Sam Lau" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Sam Lau</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "samlau95") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/685456550/son_of_man_square_400x400.jpg" alt="Andrew Do" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Andrew Do</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "?") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
  </div>
</div>

Commit message:

Add link to staff page

sp17/staff.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Staff"
description: "Professors and GSIs"
group: navigation
order: 7
---

## Instructors

<!-- The following block is for faculty info -->
<div class="container-fluid">
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function email_address(dep, name) {
      domain = dep + 'berkeley';
      tld = 'edu';
      document.write(
        '<a href="mailto:' + name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '">' +
        name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '</a>');
  }
  </script>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://jegonzal.github.io/assets/jegonzal.jpg" alt="Joey Gonzalez" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Joseph E. Gonzalez</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("cs.", "jegonzal") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Photos/Homepages/hellerstein.jpg" alt="Joseph Hellerstein" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Joseph Hellerstein</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("cs.", "hellerstein") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="http://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~nolan/images/Deb-Nolan.jpg" alt="Deborah Nolan" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Deborah Nolan</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("stat.", "nolan") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~binyu/Site/Welcome_files/Yu_Bin13.jpg" alt="Bin Yu" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Bin Yu</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("stat.", "binyu") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
  </div>
</div>

## GSIs

<!-- The following block is for GSI info -->
<div class="container-fluid">
  <script type="text/javascript">
    function email_address(dep, name) {
      domain = dep + 'berkeley';
      tld = 'edu';
      document.write(
        '<a href="mailto:' + name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '">' +
        name + '@' + domain + '.' + tld + '</a>');
  }
  </script>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="http://data8.org/fa16/assets/images/henry.png" alt="Henry Milner" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Henry Milner</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "henrym") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/8609553?v=3&u=184ee8c0c63e394971846ebc55d47f0b8de42a54&s=400" alt="Joseph Simonian" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Joseph Simonian</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "jsimonian") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="http://data8.org/fa16/assets/images/sam.jpg" alt="Sam Lau" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Sam Lau</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "samlau95") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
    <div class="col-sm-3"><div class="text-center">
      <img src="https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/685456550/son_of_man_square_400x400.jpg" alt="Andrew Do" style="height: 150px;"/>
      <address>
        <strong>Andrew Do</strong><br>
        <script type="text/javascript"> email_address("", "?") </script>
      </address>
    </div></div>
  </div>
</div>
